---
layout: post
title: "Game: Deathsmiles (X360, 2010)"
date: 2010-07-29 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Deathsmiles"
- "X360"
- "2010"
---

I bought Deathsmiles on the day it came after pre-ordering it from
Gamestop. The clerk at the store in Orem said that only he and I
had pre-ordered the game. I wonder how he likes it?

So far, I've really enjoyed it. It is really weird to play a
horizontally scrolling bullet hell game, but it works very
well. The back-and-forth between shooting to the left and the
right is very speedy. The CAVE style of bullets are easy to see,
although that doesn't mean the patterns are easy to dodge. The
familiar system is interesting (you have an option rotating around
you that moves when you move depending on what kind of shot you
are using.) The scoring system is simple to understand yet
obviously intricate to master.

The Limited Edition came with an Xbox faceplate, which I used
just because, and an "arranged" soundtrack. [Aside, many Japanese
things come in an "Arrange" version. This seems to me "edited" or
"variant", although in most cases the "Arrange" version of a
soundtrack means that it is done with normal instruments rather
than the original sound chip.] I don't really like the arranged
soundtrack, although I do like the music in the game.

However, I definitely don't like the game music as much as the
music in Mushihime-sama Futari, Ikaruga, or other shmups with
awesome soundtracks. I think the reason is that in many of those
games the music is simply /intense/ and matches the action of the
game really well. (Or, in the case of Treasure vertical shooters,
is simply epic and awe-inspiring.) In contrast, Deathsmiles' music
matches the /setting/ of the game and so it blends in more and is
less memorable or hype inducing.

As far as my accomplishments with the game so far: I've gotten
most of the Xbox achievements by credit-feeding and exploring the
game. I'm starting to work on my 1CC with Rosa. My best run was to
Tyrannosatan (the final boss) on one credit with a score of
41,697,576 points. At the time that put me at 107th place, on the
Rosa-specific leaderboard.
