---
layout: post
title: "Game: Tomba! (PS1, 1997)"
date: 2010-05-09 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Tomba!"
- "PS1"
- "1997"
---

I've recently played through Tomba! over the past few weeks as my
"main" game.

This game defies categorization.

It's primarily a platforming game with a few accoutrements to
that basic experience: you get a number of different weapons, some
speed bonuses in form of new pants, and some utility items like a
grappling hook and a parasol (so you fall slower.) While the world
and gameplay in primarily 2D, you often need to jump into the
"background" and onto a different plane. Sometimes when you go
into the background the camera rotates to a different slice of a
3D area you're exploring. It's very neat mechanically.

The other aspect of the game is the mission system. As you
interact with the world and individuals in it, they inform you of
a problem. If and when you solve it, you gain AP and unlock
potentially more missions. Some of them are required, but
definitely not all of them. There are 130 in the game; I found 106
and cleared 87 of them. (I ended with 755,900 AP. I reckon this
isn't very much.)

Overall the game is very fun and unique. I imagine that Zelda II:
The Adventure of Link could have been like this game and moved the
Zelda series in a good direction rather the dead-end /Zelda II/
was. /Tomba!/ took me 4 hours and 27 minutes on the clock to beat,
but I would guess I probably spent closer to 2.5 times that amount
of time due to the difficulty of the platforming and bosses that
required reloading my save file.

I easily recommend it. Despite having typical PS1 loading time
problems, it's definitely worth it. I'm excited to play the sequel
eventually.
