---
layout: post
title: "Game: Ikaruga (X360, 2008) (4)"
date: 2010-05-12 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Ikaruga"
- "X360"
- "2008"
---

Since I bought Ikaruga back in August, I've *still* been playing
every day. I've played for 38 hours, 42 minutes, and 28 seconds
according to the game clock. I've recently made a nice
achievement, so I thought I would make a progress report.

My accomplishments to date:
- *Credit-feeding through the game on Easy, Normal, and Hard.*
This was the first thing I did by October. (It's not totally
brain-dead because you have to beat the bosses within the time
limit.) I was able to get through Easy before unlocking
free-play.
- *Grade of A on Easy - Chapter 1.* I did this by the end of
November. It was really hard to get to that point, but now I get
an A without even thinking about it.
- *Easy - Chapter 1 - Dot Eater.* This only took a few tries and
was relatively easy. Done in November.
- *Easy - Chapter 2 - Dot Eater.* This was very hard, because it
requires pixel-perfect control to get through the blocks at the
beginning of the level. [Here's a video of someone else.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LtIDc04e79M) But it
only took about two months, maybe a little less. Done in
December.
- *Easy - Chapter 3 - Dot Eater.* This was /very hard/. I've been
working on this since December, but I just did it tonight. For
comparison, there are over a thousand people who've done Chapter
1 - Dot Eater, 103 who've done Chapter 2, and only 44 who've
done Chapter 3. (FWIW, 24 for Chapter 4 and 25 for the Final
Chapter.) There are four main challenges to this: first, getting
through the moving block lasers that push you into obstacles,
then getting through rows of enemies and moving spears, then
getting chased by/dealing with Shigi, then dealing with the
spinning boss Uzura. Yikes. [Here's a video of someone else.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gk5iefdDhvs)
- *Easy and Normal - One credit to Chapter 3's Boss.* Not much to
say here, except that doing these levels Dot Eater helps train
for the normal mode well.
