---
layout: post
title: "Game: Ikaruga (X360, 2008) (3)"
date: 2010-01-11 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Ikaruga"
- "X360"
- "2008"
---

I bought Ikaruga last August and I have been playing every single
day since then (except for when I was away on trips...)  It is
unbelievably amazing. The more I play the more I realize what a
masterpiece it is. I just want to talk about one part of it right
now:

/metaphor/

The whole game is a metaphor for life. As you play it, the
mechanics of the game force you to put yourself into the mind of
Shinra (the pilot of the Ikaruga.) The game starts with this
quote:

"I will not die until I achieve something.
Even though the ideal is high, I never give in.
Therefore, I never die with regrets."

Is this about Shinra?: The single surviving member of the army
that fought against the Horai; the man who has been nursed back to
health by the defeated people of the island town of Ikaruga; the
man who will fight against "The Power of the Gods"; (SPOILER) the
man who dies to destroy the Ubusunagami Okinokai?

Is this about the player playing the game?: The game acknowledges
its difficulty and how it cannot be casually won; even though it
"only" lasts 29 minutes, I've played for over 20 hours and am not
even close to conquering it; I practice every day so I can achieve
something and I never give in.

Or is this about the player in his normal life?: We all face
adversity, but we must achieve something and fight for our ideals
or else we will die with regrets.

By teaching the player about Shinra, teaching the player about
himself as player, the game teaches the player about himself as a
person.

I have a hard time thinking of other games that do this.
