---
layout: post
title: "Lost"
date: 2010-10-16 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "TV Shows"
- "Lost"
---

Starting in July, *REDACTED* and I started watching Lost. Since it had
finished, we were able to watch all the episodes with only the
delays we wanted, rather than having to wait in between
seasons---the way we like it.

My first experience with Lost was when I went to the graduate
school recruiting visit. Someone invited a few of us over to watch
the third or fourth episode. I wasn't really interested at the
time, but when I think of Lost, I think of that first. I'm guessing
I would've been caught if I had started back then. =)

I liked Lost because of the interesting mythology and the detailed
characters. Lost isn't really about the "plot" or about discovering
a "mystery", it is really a character drama where the situations in
the show just serve to illustrate the personalities of the
characters. Of course, this standard of the drama genre gets
co-opted by the mythology to turn the whole island experience into
a kind of test for the characters. The mythology as a whole is
really interesting and fun to speculate about. Yet I wouldn't say
that discovering it is really what the show is about, because I
don't believe the full mythology was in the mind of the creators,
thus you can't really call it a "mystery", but rather an unfolding
revelation.

My favourite characters where Juliette, Richard, Ben, and the
Monster. Of the survivors, I thought *REDACTED* was very well developed
and Sawyer showed the most growth, which is interesting. I liked
Annalucia and Boone, though they were short lived, so they are
harder to appreciate.

I'd definitely recommend Lost. I'm excited to read fan theories and
summaries now.
