---
layout: post
title: "Doll House"
date: 2010-05-07 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "TV Shows"
- "Doll House"
---

About two weeks ago, *REDACTED* and I wanted to do something together
but didn't have a movie to watch, didn't want to play New Super
Mario Brothers Wii, didn't want to watch Seinfeld, and were feeling
lazy. So we decided to start watching a new Joss Whedon show,
Dollhouse. Naturally, we haven't done much at night since then
except watch it. Last night we finished the second season and thus
the whole series.

This show is amazing and awesome. It's very clever, in that Joss
way. The world is compelling and you feel like you understand it,
in that Joss way. The characters feel real, in that Joss way. There
is an epic story with twists and turns, in that Joss way. Everyone
needs to watch it. It helps suggests deep thoughts about free will,
love, desire, and technology that are fascinating and
important.

When I watched it, however, I realized one thing more than
anything else: /TV is Dead/.

I would /never/ watch live TV for any reason, other than General
Conference, even for a show as amazing as Dollhouse. If a show like
this can't get me to watch TV, and since it was cancelled the
feeling is common, then good TV simply can't exist anymore.

This is really sad, because easily my favourite creative person
in film/movies/etc is Joss Whedon and his forte is the arc and the
world that are only possible with TV serialization. That format
needs some other way of existing profitably. (DVD sales, etc can't
do it because they assume it has already aired.) I don't have any
ideas or advice, but I wish I did.

The looming cancellation of the show is incredibly present as
you watch it. It's totally true that the second season feels like
it is on "fast forward". There were many episodes where *REDACTED* and I
looked at each other and said, "That would be half a season if this
were Buffy", or similar comments. Yet, I'm glad the show had so
much closure and moved so far, especially after the annoying
non-ending of Firefly.
