---
layout: post
title: "Game: Snatcher (SCD, 1994)"
date: 2010-03-05 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Snatcher"
- "SCD"
- "1994"
---

Tonight I played Snatcher, Hideo Kojima's second video game, for
the Sega CD. I'm a huge fan of his Metal Gear series and I've
always heard of how cool /Snatcher/ was, so I finally got around
to playing it.

The gameplay isn't very deep. The puzzles and adventure game-style
fetching is pretty basic. The shooting scenes are trivial and
mostly unnecessary. But, the story and presentation is pretty
amazing, particularly if you can put your mind back in the late
80s/early 90s. You can really see how it fits into his overall
career in terms of the style, some of the core ideas, and the
"feel" of the story. For example, Kojima is very good at
suggesting that there is a deeper interesting world behind his
games; a few instances of this I liked were the subtle references
to genetically modified pets and Martian mining. A few other
things I really enjoyed were the references to other video games
at the time in the night club and to pop-culture, e.g. talking
about "Michael Jaxson" and how he is strange. The game also makes
me appreciate /Metal Gear Solid 4/'s Metal Gear Mk.II---in
/Snatcher/ your assistant has the same name and looks roughly the
same too.

It was a good history lesson and I enjoyed it, but I shouldn't
have stayed up so late. :)
