---
layout: post
title: "Game: N+ (DS, 2008)"
date: 2010-12-12 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "N+"
- "DS"
- "2008"
---

I just beat N+ for the DS.

Death stats in row-column order: 0, 37, 156, 443, 0, 110, 54, 2054
(bombs), 4 (clock), 4, 231, 134 (falling); Total: 3223.

Gold: 20323

This is an amazing 2D platforming game. It requires a lot of
precision and skill. I played it when I first got my DS, but
didn't spend a lot of time on it (in fact, I don't think I beat
the first episode.) But, I was reminded of it by Podcast 198x when
they compared it to Super Meat Boy, which I just got on XBLA. So,
since I'm DS-bound, I decided to play it.

I beat all the episodes and all the levels (I think there's
about 250.) The satisfaction I get from this game is shmup like:
you have an incredibly difficult challenge that you tackle bit by
bit---getting a little bit further in the level each time. It's a
great feeling to defeat something so difficult.

The game is incredibly exhilarating too. For example, there are
sentries that target you with their lasers and fire. You can see
the cross-hair starting to follow you and lock-on (it turns red
when it does); my heart races when I am avoiding laser
fire. Similarly, there are heat-seeking missiles that get on your
tail and it is a blast to avoid them.

The game is more physics-based than most platformers I've
played. A lot of levels require a certain amount of momentum to
get passed segments; gravity is actually acceleration rather than
velocity; etc. This makes an interesting challenge.

The game has perfect control. I can't think of anything that
could be better about it.

I think the only thing the game lacks is kickin music. I know
there was music, but it is totally forgetable.

Overall, amazing game: A+

Here's a video that gives a good taste of the game and one of the
hardest levels: [Episode 38](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qYVr3GpBIHM).
