---
layout: post
title: "Game: Bayonetta (X360, 2009)"
date: 2010-09-13 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Bayonetta"
- "X360"
- "2009"
---

I just finished playing Bayonetta for the Xbox 360.

This game is insane. The craziness of the situations Bayonetta
is in is truly ridiculous. One of my favourite parts is when you
are falling out of an airplane's cargo bay, so you stop time and
jump up the falling crates. Awesome. The fights are insane. The
climax finishes are equally ridiculous. The attention to detail is
really stellar too. The gameplay is intense. Oh man. This game is
great.

I really enjoy the soundtrack, especially the theme song and
the rendition of "Fly Me to the Moon".

I played through on Normal, then Very Easy, then Easy, then
Hard (finished in under 3 hours), then Non-Stop Infinite Climax
(the hardest difficulty, crazy name huh?) (finished in 3 hours, 4
minutes.) I ended up playing the game for a total of 33 hours, 50
minutes, and 45 seconds. I unlocked everything (except Sai-Fon),
got almost all the achievements, tried out the extra characters,
etc. I didn't like playing with the extra characters or the extra
costumes as much because the detail just wasn't there.

The main thing I disliked about the game was the
"mini-games". For example, there is a shooting gallery game, a
racing level, and a Space Harrier-like level. These introduce
totally new control schemes and don't have the polish of the
overall game. Unlike Treasure, who takes the same mechanics and
control and puts them in a different genre, Platinum Games just
implemented a whole other game and put it inside Bayonetta. I
especially dislike the Space Harrier level.

Here's someone else's [description of Bayonetta](http://www.comicsalliance.com/2010/09/09/10-video-games-that-should-be-comics/):
{% blockquote %}

For those of you who haven't played it, Bayonetta is the story of
a bespectacled witch who straps guns to her feet so that she can
kick people in the face while she's shooting them in the face at
the same time, and the better she fights, the more naked she
gets. Oh, and also, she kills angels with a zeal that makes her a
pretty close equivalent to a sexy female version of Ronnie James
Dio. In other words, she's exactly what you'd get if you went back
in time and told fourteen year-old me to imagine best thing
ever.

{% endblockquote %}

Finally, a little comment on the M rating. I generally don't
play M rated games because I don't want to see extreme violence,
hear nasty language, or see pornography. The violence in Bayonetta
doesn't bother me because the enemies are so inhuman (and the
humans, including Bayonetta herself, bleed e.g. rose petals); for
the large grotesque monsters the blood and gore doesn't even feel
like gore. It looks like they're spewing lava or something. I
thought the language in Bayonetta was bad, especially one
particular character (the Italian stooge.) I was initially
impressed that Bayonetta herself never used bad language, but she
once says the F word. It sounds really out of character because
she's normally so sophisticated. I didn't like that and it's one
reason I never watched cut-scenes after the first
play-through. Finally, the pornography side. In my opinion,
Bayonetta is actually quite tame compared to many modern
games. Bayonetta replaces titillating graphic nudity with a
general sexual tone and flashes of partial nudity. This playful
PG-13-ness makes me grin and laugh at the craziness, rather than
be offended. I'm sure others would disagree, but that's how I
feel. It definitely doesn't pass the "Would I want my 13 year old
son to play it?" test, but I wouldn't be ashamed if my college age
child did.

Anyways, I was really impressed by this game. I recommend
it. Play with the volume low in the cutscenes or just skip (the
story is only good for its insanity) if your ears are like
mine.
