---
layout: post
title: "Game: Radilgy (DC, 2006)"
date: 2010-02-19 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Radilgy"
- "DC"
- "2006"
---


I recently bought a Dreamcast. The very first game I played was
The Typing of the Dead, but I only played it for a few minutes to
show to Wifey. The very first game I played in depth is <a
Radilgy, a shmup.

The art style is really unique and good looking. The controllers
are quite tight. The weapons are fun. (I really like the lasers
and the bubbles. I play most of the time with the lasers though.)
The shield, sword, and force field are nice touches.

The fourth and fifth levels have these segments that require
spamming the force field over and over and over. (At least, that's
how I do it!) It is pretty insane. Each of the end bosses is
really fun. The mid-level bosses are a little repetitive, because
they have the same core attacks, but they fit well and create a
nice feel for the game. (As I understand from the Wikipedia story,
those are the terrorists and the end bosses are warped
robots.)

My one complaint with the game is that the graphics are so
bright and there is so much flashing that it becomes hard to look
at after a while. I've been playing in 20-ish minute chunks then
doing something else.

I just beat it on Easy with 6 credits and 5 life credits using the
laser. I've been working on a number of different
configurations. I don't like it when shmups have so many options,
because I don't have a good grasp of what the "right" options
are. There is also a big temptation to make it easier, etc. I
wonder, should I try to 1cc it on Easy, then Normal, then Hard? Or
just got right to a different difficulty, etc? I can use 1 credit
to get to the middle of stage 3 (the mini-boss) on Normal. I've
gotten through stages 1 and 2 without ever dying as well. How
should I go about it? I plan on definitely playing for a little
while, but I don't want to make it a permanent pursuit like
/Ikaruga/.
