---
layout: post
title: "Game: Raiden 4 (X360, 2009)"
date: 2011-08-16 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Raiden 4"
- "X360"
- "2009"
---

I played Raiden IV a bit. I played through to the end of the game,
including the second loop. I basically credit-fed the second loop
after making it to the second loop in a legit way. My best score
was 17,036,000. (A little short of the 20mil to get the last point
achievement.)

One thing I really liked about the game is that there were
massive, beautiful explosions and the way the ground spins, moves,
and feels really deep. I also liked the way the final boss appears
to be The Stone-Like. The weapon selection is pretty cool. It
reminds me a lot of Blazing Lazers.

There were quite a few things I didn't like, though.

The size of the hit-box is really unclear and seems large.

I don't feel like the enemy bullets pop out of the background and
your bullets enough.

The game feels like it is cheating when you try to dodge some
shots. Specifically there are many times where the field is bigger
than the screen, so when you move to the left or right you move
across the background but basically stay in the same spot. This
feels like cheating because the bullets move with
you---effectively making it like you can't dodge.

I don't like it when snipers come on-screen and then go to the
bottom of the screen and shoot up at you. I was thinking about
other shooters and couldn't think of situations where you have to
dodge what is behind you---except in boss segments where the
screen is fixed and you're not scrolling anymore. This last point
doesn't seem broken; it is a legitimate gameplay choice, but I
don't like it.

This won't go in my rotation, but I got $10 worth of fun.

15,250,950
17,036,000    
