---
layout: post
title: "Game: The Last Remnant (X360, 2008) (2)"
date: 2012-04-12 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "The Last Remnant"
- "X360"
- "2008"
---

So I just played for 1:15. I got to the end of the fourth area,
but died during the boss fight. I had not saved---I don't know
why, I guess I assumed that there would be checkpoints before
bosses, like Blue Dragon (and many of the other RPGs I've played
recently have.) And so, I lost all that progress and I will have
to start again from scratch. I wouldn't be able to bear doing it
all over again I don't think. At least not right away, I'll try
again tomorrow, I guess.

With my limited play experience, I have some thoughts about the
game.

First, the technical problems are super apparent. The texture
pop-in is really obvious and pretty bad. The framerate is pretty
chuggy. There is a fairly long loading screen before every fight
and between every scene (even with it installed.) In my short
time, this wasn't unbearable, but it was very noticeable.

Second, the art is very pretty. They put a lot of work into most
of the textures and models. The animation is pretty basic. A lot
of the cut-scenes look really blocky and there is pretty bad "dead
eye" syndrome. This is definitely not FF13. The liquid effects in
the first cave weren't great and there was an early scene with an
overhead view of a field where there was some pretty bad
tiling. But overall, pretty.

Third, the gameplay is totally overwhelming. The very first combat
sequence you get into is filed with tons of HUD elements. The
weapon/customization/etc system looks very frightening. This is
overall a good thing. I'm glad there isn't a tedious tutorial
(although the first few areas are clearly about teaching you
different tactics.) The details of combat are really strange. A
cross between doing a lot and doing nothing.

On one level, it is a strategy game where you have teams on 2D
field and you direct attacks to set up flanks, back attacks,
etc. Except, you can't actually move the units, they run in a
straight line at the enemy unit you choose. So it's a strategy
game where positioning isn't directly controlled. This feels like
doing nothing, compared to a strategy game, but like doing a lot
compared to a normal RPG.

On another level, it's kind of like a normal Dragon Quest style
RPG where you select "Attack", "Magic", or "Item" and then watch
the action play out. Except that the animations are much more
involved, and there are little QTEs (slightly more complicated
than Lost Odyssey's) sometimes during them. Except that you don't
choose these actions on per character basis, but for a whole team
(called a union of units.) Except that you don't actually choose
which skills you will use, like "Magic > Fire", you just choose
"Magic". Except that all your skills aren't always available, for
example, you can only choose "Heal" when someone is actually hurt
and within range. This feels like doing nothing, compared to a
normal RPG, or even S/TRPG, but a lot more than an RTS or
something where you just point and they do their one thing.

It is really strange.

Obviously I just died during this fight, which means I haven't
learned it enough. My problem in the fight was over-confidence and
not healing. But, that over-confidence came from just spamming
Attack in all the other battles ("Press A to Win"-style). Tomorrow
I'll see how fast I can get back to this point by skipping scenes,
etc.
