---
layout: post
title: "Game: Gal*Gun (PS3, 2012)"
date: 2012-10-01 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Gal*Gun"
- "PS3"
- "2012"
---

I heard of this game online as a weird Japanese rail-shooter. I
like rail-shooters, but I find the zombie aesthetic to be pretty
boring. I thought it would be cute to have the girls/Cupid/love
thing going on in the game. I wasn't let down in that regard, but
I found the gameplay to be very easy. I was able to clear one of
the girls in a very short period of time. I only had a hard time
with the "boss fights" because they all had different mechanics. I
really didn't get what was going on with the book shelf
situation. I got a pretty good score on my first run, it said I
got 82% of the maximum or something and I got the "Good End". But
it wasn't really the sort of thing with a lot of interesting depth
to it... like Sin & Punishment. This is kind of disappointing, but
I didn't pay too much for the game.

I was slightly nervous that the game would be too scandalous but
it's not bad at all. The girls are all normal anime girls and
there's no cleavage or anything like that at all. The most racy it
gets is that the girl's skirts rustle and sometimes it flash their
underwear for a moment. I was pleased that the girls in swimsuits
were wearing sports one-pieces, like they were properly on a swim
team.

I think my favourite part of the game were the animations and
sounds... particularly how when the girls get close, they give
the character an invitation or if they "attack" from far away
they shout something like "Love" or "Really Like You" and the
words are coming at you.

It's a totally bizarre game, but not very deep. I'm not sure how
its depth compares to something like Resident Evil: Umbrella
Chronicles, which is structurally identical but with a zombie
skin. But, Gal*Gun isn't interesting enough for me to want to
play more than a few times.

Total time: 1:48
