---
layout: post
title: "Movie: Underworld: Rise of the Lycans, starring Michael Sheen and Bill Nighy (2009) (2)"
date: 2012-05-03 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Movies"
- "2009"
---

Thinking about this movie the day after, there are some things
really strange about it:

All the movies more or less establish the vampires as basically in
the right, with the werewolves being too uncontrolled to be safe
for humans. Almost as if the vampires are protecting humans from
the immortals---especially given that they have a cultural
imperative to not consume human blood. (Viktor is a "bad" vampire
almost entirely because he sometimes breaks this rule.)

The first movie mixes this a little bit, portraying Lucian as
having been wronged and the vampires, especially Viktor, overly
prejudiced. But, it doesn't give Lucian any motives other than
revenge on vampires. Given that he is involved in offensive action,
it's not as if the vampires are simply out to get him. The war is
reciprocal.

The second movie really lays on the thick that danger of the
werewolves with the flash back sequences, but otherwise doesn't
really develop the reason for the conflict. It's basically just
sibling rivalry. (The movie is also weird because it makes very
little sense that Markus would act as he does now, as opposed to in
any of the previous 100 year periods where he was the sole reigning
vampire elder. It's especially incomprehensible why he destroys his
coven.)

The third movie doesn't really explain why Lucian would continue to
fight the vampires. It presents him as unassailably moral and a
freedom fighter. But once he gets his freedom, why does he have any
reason to continue fighting? Especially given that he thinks Viktor
is dead.

I presume that this won't be resolved or explained in the last
movie. But maybe not? It seems like Selene is the oldest vampire
that we've heard of it that is still alive and there has never been
any ranking werewolves other than Lucian and William.
