---
layout: post
title: "Game: Child of Eden (X360, 2011)"
date: 2012-05-15 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Child of Eden"
- "X360"
- "2011"
---

I got this game as a prize from Call of Podcast for writing about
my game management system. It was on my to-buy list before that,
although I was planning on buying the PS3 version. The game looked
really beautiful and I really like Genki Rockets. I played Rez for
the Dreamcast and wasn't really blown away, but I thought that it
might be more interesting in a more modern form.

The game opens up with a really intriguing video and quickly shows
off its unique, beautiful world.

I played it for about an hour and half tonight. I beat the
first three levels on the first try, although I had to do each
twice to unlock the next level. I played the fourth level about
four times, but kept dying at the final form of the boss, because
it shoots so many tracer rounds.

I find the gameplay to be enjoyable and challenging, at least when
you get totally overwhelmed by bullets. I suppose I should get
better at using the screen clearing bombs. The addition of the
tracer rounds seems like it would be an insignificant change, but
it makes a huge difference compared to Rez.

I love the music, although I wish that there were more vocals,
like the actual Genki Rockets song. It may be that I'm not playing
well enough to unlock them though... on that note, I dislike how
it seems like I am doing the levels perfect (not getting hit,
getting mostly perfect octo-locks) but I'm only get three stars a
pop. It's weird.

I love that every level is totally different visually and aurally
from the others. This game is the perfect of a game that seems
like it was made on a totally different planet. I've played plenty
of Japanese games that do this, but most Western games lack that
kind of creativity.

I intend to keep trucking at it and beat. I haven't yet decided if
I will play through the hard mode or if I will just periodically
play through the whole game when I want to chill out to some rad
music, or show someone the game.

Total time: 2:24
