---
layout: post
title: "Game: Xenoblade Chronicles (Wii, 2010) (4)"
date: 2012-09-13 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Xenoblade Chronicles"
- "Wii"
- "2010"
---

I played for about two hours tonight. I did a lot of exploring and
got into the mines. I've decided that the game play in this really
sucks:

Basically the only task that you do in combat as a player is
click on the 8 buttons for the different skills. There's no real
reason to do any skill at any particular time, because status
effects will either stack or not and by the time one runs out,
you can just cast it again. So basically, everyone combat starts
by clicking everything and then waiting until you can click them
all again in sequence. Occasionally you have to remember to use
Enchant when you're fighting Mechon and to move around a little
after killing each enemy so you're in range, but you really don't
need to give any of it much more thought than that. I can tell
that no more strategy is required because I can basically walk
through the game up to this point, doing this strategy, and
winning basically every fight. I've only lost if I got into a
fight that was way over level or I was too close to two groups of
enemies and they joined together. It's very uninteresting.

Outside of combat, there also isn't that much to do because each
character basically only has 10 or so abilities and they are all
so meh and I can't imagine really caring one way or another about
why you'd pick one versus the other.

I can't really understand why a lot of people gave this game such
high reviews. It pales in comparison to other RPGs like FF13 or
Lost Odyssey, where there are actually interesting choices to
make in combat. I've read so much that the game is so good
because it takes (presumably "good") Western ideas and mixes them
with Japanese design. Man, this Western design, if it means the
combat system, is total junk. I've read that it's very similar to
WoW... now I'm sure I wouldn't like WoW.

I've tried to think of why I feel like it's different than FF12,
which was very MMO-ish. I think the reason why it is different is
the Gambits. Basically in FF12, Gambits automated what the player
is "doing" in Xenoblade. Since that was necessarily going on, the
game was free to through bigger challenges on top of those and
have lots of split second usage of the special moves, which
constituted a really large set. In Xenoblade, you never feel like
you died because of lack of strategy, you feel like you died
because of stupid AI or not enough grinding. Whereas in FF12, I
could die, gain some knowledge from the experience, restart and
immediately win the battle, because I knew something I didn't
know before. With Xenoblade (so far), the only reason you didn't
grind enough or you fell asleep with an active fight.

Xenoblade has caused me to think about RPG combat systems at the
meta-level a bit. In Xeno, you have 8 skills, each with separate
cool-downs, so basically every 30 seconds you are using skill A
and since you can spawn so many at once, basically, there are
little bursts of doing a lot of skills followed by waiting around
for the skills to be reusable. In contrast, in a traditional
JRPG, there are about 30 or 40 skills (i.e. magic spells,
summons, attack techniques, etc) plus items. Each skill has a
cost of some kind so you can't always choose it (summons are once
per battle, items are limited, spells use MP, etc.) But you can
only do one action every 5 seconds when your turn comes up. Since
every character is on their own timer and the enemies are acting
to. There is always one thing happening and you can always pay
attention to it (if it is a player, you're picking it, and if it
is an enemy, you're thinking about how to respond.) In contrast,
with Xeno, there's a lot going at once so you can't pay attention
and the decisions that you make are basically non-existent. Once
you choose the initial skill order, there's no reason to do
anything except use the skills again once they cool down. All
strategy takes place in the first few seconds and then you're
just doing a rote execution. In addition, the number of skills in
the traditional JRPG makes it so the solution space is much large
so it can more difficult to plan. (For example, you have the
elemental affinities, healing spells, buffs, etc.)

Xenoblade is just a really boring game combat-wise and the
meta-game is very tedious and/or confusing. I'm really let down
by this because the game was so hyped.

However, I'm incredibly compelled by the world and the story. It's
so strange and interesting. I want to play the game just to
experience that, provided it won't cost 50 hours. I wonder if I
can easily speed my way through the game without any grinding or
BS and if I'll be able to bear it long enough.

This conclusion makes most nervous about Last Story which I have
been equally (actually /more/ hyped about.) We'll see.

Total time: 9:20
