---
layout: post
title: "Game: Castlevania (NES, 1986) (5)"
date: 2012-10-21 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Castlevania"
- "NES"
- "1986"
---

I decided to beat this game today. I used a cheat code to give
infinite lines, so I didn't need to worry about continues and
replaying sections over and over (at least, until I got passed
them once, or in the case of the stage before a boss battle, more
times.) However, even with that, I was able to get to
Frankenstein's in 3 lives. I took another three to get to stage
15 (the stage that ends in Death.) I did all that in about 30
minutes. I played the stage before Death for about 25 minutes
before church. Then I had a very NES moment and left the system
running while I was at church.

When I got back, I played Death's sequence over and over again
for an hour and a half. Eventually I decided to focus on not
losing any life at all during the hallway with the two axe
knights and the brutal Medusa heads, by willingly sacrificing
lots of hearts. This turned out to be a good move and I gradually
improved. It took maybe three times of getting to Death with full
health before I defeated him. It was awesome.

It only took about 15 minutes to get to Dracula after that. It
took another hour and a half before I beat Dracula. It got to the
point where I could get passed the first form without taking any
damage pretty reliably, but then I had to work on my moves to
fight the second form. Eventually I decided to try the potion
rather than the cross, because the cross didn't seem to do much
damage. This was an awesome move. The potion doesn't do any
damage, but it stunlocks him so he can't move. Provided I didn't
have the double shot, I was able to lay into him for two hits,
then stun, then repeat. I was triumphant!

Altogether, I beat the game in about four hours. It felt so good
to do it. Even though I used a code, it was a pretty weak code
because I had to do everything. It's a good example about what
I'd like games to do---be like spaced repetition systems (like
Anki), have me do a stage until I can beat it reliably, then move
on, but don't show me something that is now easy (or moderate,
but with random swings all the time.)

I'm very glad I gave this game a chance. Initially, the controls
felt so gross, but now I really love their unique stickiness.

Cycle time: 3:58
Total time: 6:59
