---
layout: post
title: "Game: Asura's Wrath (PS3, 2012) (5)"
date: 2012-09-08 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Asura's Wrath"
- "PS3"
- "2012"
---

I played for about two hours this afternoon. I beat the normal
game, but I got a message about a hidden episode that requires a
certain score to play through. I'm interested in the story and I
feel duty bound to get this score myself, rather than just watch
it online. (Whereas I will watch the "True" Ending that is DLC
because that's ridiculous.) I'll probably get the chance to do it
later today.

The normal ending is crazy. The "Tarantula" earth is ridiculous. I
love that there is a title screen on the last episode of the
game. I love the crazy million exploding arms thing. The battle
with the Vlitra Core was horrific. It is incredibly hard to dodge
in this game because the frame rate will get really choppy and
then things start teleporting around. The worst thing about the
fight was that the two QTE counter-attacks would change the
prompt seemingly randomly so you couldn't really be prepared for
what it would be. Argh.

I thought that Yasha's voice actor sounded like York from Deadly
Premonition, but my wife disagreed... and she was right. As usual.

--

Later in the day I tried to starting doing the S Ranks to get the
true ending. I redid level 13, did really well, but didn't get an
S. This made me decide it wasn't worth it to play the game
continuously to earn the S. Instead, I watched it on YouTube and
then started watching the DLC.

--

In the extended ending DLC, the Demigods-are-Robots hypothesis
got a lot of strength, because Asura's chest is opened and a new
"reactor" is put inside.

The space fight with the True Boss is ridiculous. Asura grows
larger than the Earth, but it is still huge. At one point, it
seems to be launching stars at Asura.

The ending comic sequence is nuts too. Chun-Li was in it! I love
the ridiculous time lengths... 670 million years later.

The Street Fighter DLC was pretty crazy too. I liked how meta it
was... Asura entering Ryu's game and then Ryu entering Asura's
game. And I loved that Akuma and Asura fought for 500 years
straight. Ridiculous.

--

Overall, I'd say Asura's Wrath was a fun experience. The anime
aspect of it was really great and I think the QTEs do a good job
at making that experience more tense because you're at the edge
of your seat. I never failed during a QTE sequence, but I did
fail quite a few times at the big boss battles during the action
sequences. I felt like they were pretty bad because they were
just sloppy (which I mentioned above.) But, given the anime
package, they were pretty fun. I'd say that they should've been a
bit easier or shorter so that they didn't take away from the
roller coaster. In a lot of those action sequences there was real
bad frame-rate problems and on the version I played there was
some screen tearing near the end of the game. But other than
that, things looked really good.

I can recommend Asura's Wrath in the same way I'd recommend a good
movie or TV show. It's 8 hours worth of over-the-top insanity for
a reasonable price. I doubt it would be very replayable (even
replaying the one level for a score was really unexciting) and
this speaks ill of it /as a game/. But as a unique form of new
interactive entertainment... it's pretty good.

Total time: 8:06
