---
layout: post
title: "Game: Star Ocean: The Last Hope International (PS3, 2010)"
date: 2012-05-08 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Star Ocean: The Last Hope International"
- "PS3"
- "2010"
---

I've played the first and third Star Ocean games and really
enjoyed them. I generally like everything that tri-Ace does, so
I'm looking forward to this game. I like the idea of the enhanced
PS3 version, but I don't really know anything about the game or
about what is enhanced about this release.

--

I played for about an hour in my first session. The concept of the
world is pretty cool. It's the first Star Ocean I can think of
that has Earth as a real place. I wonder if it is supposed to be
in the same continuity as the other games? The gameplay seems like
it will be cool. The battle system tutorial was incredibly
complicated and I did during the battle three times before
winning. That makes me hopeful, although a little bit of the time
I felt like I was losing because I couldn't target the thing I
wanted. The graphics are pretty good, although the characters are
verrry anime-y and from some angles their clothes really clash
with their faces. (For example, the guy on the computer screen
that Edge talks to.) The controls are responsive.  Although the
camera controls are a little too "tight" for my taste so far. I
got a little stuck walking around in the space ship. I think the
problem is that the world is so "bright" that it's hard to notice
something you can bump into. Anyways, the majority of the time was
spent in videos, so I don't really have a good feel for the game
yet.

Total: 1:03
