---
layout: post
title: "Game: Final Fantasy 13 2 (PS3, 2012) (13)"
date: 2012-02-16 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Final Fantasy 13 2"
- "PS3"
- "2012"
---

I found another random fragment in New Bodhum 700 AF. I find it
very frustrating in that world that there are fragments that seem
totally hidden... like I can't really find them until something in
the game changes... like beating it once or maybe finding another
fragment somewhere else. I don't like the aimless direction. The
Cactuars in the platforming area look A LOT like swastikas. The
lack of explanation for Sazh's appearance is pretty funny. Hope's
willy nilly time traveling is pretty weird too. The love story
aspect I anticipated was very pronounced. Fighting Caius on the
beach was really tough and after I was about to get him twice,
since he came back the first time, I had just used a Phoenix Blood
and lost it :( Three Bahamuts at once! WOAH! I beat each of the
supports twice but then Jet used Gigaflare and I couldn't get up
Sentinals fast enough :( This last battle is ridiculous, because I
just barely get him staggered and then another Bahamut comes back
and I can't make use of it. I beat him with 17:50 (the target time
was 11:13) -- bummer. I used three Phoenix Bloods and two Elixirs
(I think). Yikes. I never understood why the humans can't just
live on Pulse. And what a stupid name for the new card: Bunivelze?
I just noticed that Serah's earrings are little cats. Woah! Did
she just die? Wow, what a super depressing ending... Lightning on
the goddess Etro's throne looked wicked cool though. "To Be
Continued"? FF13-3? Or just one of the other endings? I don't
understand what the Paradox Scope will do... should I use it all
the time? Should I try to do the fragments I can on my own and
then use it? Do I need to reset everything? I think I will try to
do what I can without it and then start using it and closing each
gate that has free fragments. [036:33:45 Frags 102/160 Lvl 418]
