---
layout: post
title: "Game: Final Fantasy 13 2 (PS3, 2011) - Review/Summary"
date: 2012-02-27 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Final Fantasy 13 2"
- "PS3"
- "2011"
---

Now that I've beat the game and 100%'d it, I feel like I can write
a review. Overall, I feel pretty conflicted about this game. FF13
is practically perfect---there is a lot of content that is
different; it is difficult, but trains you pretty well; it has a
decent story and a really interesting universe; it has really fun
mechanics; etc. The complaints I have with it are quite minor---a
bunch of UI things, the cruelty of the Treasure Hunter trophy.

FF13-2 takes that foundation and basically finds a way to fix
every little problem---the UI is much better in ways you wouldn't
have thought could be possible (Paradigm Deck saving, Paradigm
focuses, streamlined Crystarium, Clock Master, etc); the trophies
are pretty reasonable (except Clock Stopper and Saddle Sore, but
those are just tedious, not painful like Treasure Hunter). And
then on top of that, it adds all sorts of other things that are
really fun & diverse: the Monster capture system, Chocobo racing
(very minor, but fun that it is there), the Hidden Object game (a
big part of the game, a nice distraction), the extra endings,
Wounding, the Moogle clock, the Temporal Rift puzzles, etc. Lots
of little things that make the game a bit more enjoyable and
diverse. These basically mean to me that FF13-2 has better
"mechanics", much better, in fact.

There are bigger things too. For example, I feel like in this game
the story and characters are more important and developed, because
there are fewer of them, you already know their basics, etc;
whereas in FF13-1 the "drive" of the
characters---escape---consumes all story bandwidth.

But, that said, there is a lot that was present in FF13-1 that is
missing from 2. For example, there are very few beautiful
pre-rendered cut-scenes; there number of different environments in
much less than that of 13, which is surprising to me given that
they didn't even re-use every environment and there didn't seem to
be very much from the "whole game of content" that was cut
from 13.

However, the biggest problem to me was the lack of a
challenge. During the game, I never grinded. Even in the post game,
the most you could say I grinded was at Serendipity (not in combat)
and when trying to find every creature, I had to fight a lot to get
what I wanted to appear. In addition, I don't think I used my
resources (i.e. monster upgrades) very effectively and I never got
better versions of weapons, accessories, or used anything other
than optimize accessories for damage. Yet despite this, there were
almost no incredibly strenuous fights. I can think of less than
half a dozen that I died on and most of those I didn't feel like I
needed to learn very much to get by.

This was especially true and bad of the monsters in
dungeons. Something I loved about FF13 was that normal enemies were
very hard and could kill you pretty bad if you didn't pay
attention. In 13-2, it felt like because the game was so
non-linear, each area was too easy. That was very
disappointing. Now what is even worse than all that, was that the
bonus content---the super hard bosses, like FF13's missions, were
weak sauce and lacking in number. Even the Long Gui, the feared
destroyer from 13-1, I beat on the first try and not at full
strength or even with a good monster ally.

In addition to that, of the games 160 fragments, it seemed like
only 25-ish were boss battle-related, compared to 13's 64 boss
battle missions. Most of the fragments were pretty bland fetch
quests. That was really disappointing.

Ramping the difficulty up alone would drastically improve this game
and its replayability. Creating more boss encounters would be
really good too. I can forgive it for the lack of areas and
cut-scenes, because that seems really constrained by a
budget. Another improvement, IMHO, would be to have non-DLC outfits
(I had anticipated getting some, but none for Serah came out while
I was playing the game.)  and non-DLC coliseum encounters. In
particular, an FF6-style coliseum where you bet items would be a
really cool thing in a combat-focused game like this.

Finally, I feel really let down by the ending, if it just had a
little bit more hope---other than To Be Continued---that would've
made all the difference, or if there was a promise of a sequel,
etc.

Overall, I'm glad I played it, I will probably play it again, but
only so that I can replay the full sequence of 13. I'm not sure I'd
play it again as often as I would 13-1. If a 13-3 came out that was
just like this, I would buy it too, but I'd hope for a bit more
improvements.

I think I will wait 6-ish months and then get all the DLC and come
back to the game for a bit.
