---
layout: post
title: "Game: The Legend of Zelda (Second Quest) (NES, 1986)"
date: 2012-11-04 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "The Legend of Zelda (Second Quest)"
- "NES"
- "1986"
---

Almost a year ago, I beat the first quest of Legend of Zelda. I'd
never really played the second quest, but I knew it existed, so
after doing Castlevania II, I decided to knock it out.

I played for about 2 hours and 15 minutes and got up to level 4
and had about 9 hearts and other stuff from the overworld. It was
very painful to gather all the money. I decided that I wanted to
buy the arrows and wanted to try the Money Making Game trick, but
I needed to plug in the second controller. I was scared of
accidentally bumping the NES and causing it to glitch, so I
figured I'd save first. I stupidly didn't realize that when you
do "Continue" it doesn't also save, so I just held down RESET,
saved the SRAM on my PowerPak, and rebooted. And thus I deleted
all my progress. Ouch.

I decided to play again, but with a Game Genie code to give me
more access to money, so I wouldn't have to do the rupee grinding
like I did the first time. It took about one hour to get back to
where I was before. Then another 2 and a half to win. 3:34 total.

This version of the game is much more difficult. There are parts
where you almost have to play it like a stealth game because you
are so limited in your ability to take damage.

I like that the maps are rearranged, but since I used online maps,
it didn't really matter... I don't have the patience to make my
own tools to do mapping for myself. I would never look at a map in
game like Castlevania (one of the Metroid-style ones) because the
in-game map system is so good. A game like Legend of Zelda that
had a really good map like there, maybe with the ability to make
notes like in Etrian Odyssey. That would be cool and you could
probably randomly generate the maps to have infinite fun. I wonder
if it would be too much like Sudoku though (in the sense that you
would always start off by trying to find the Blue Ring and then
the Candle, etc, etc.)

I liked the final message: "You are great. You have an amazing
wisdom and power."

Cycle time: 3:34
Total time: 5:46
