---
layout: post
title: "Game: Blue Dragon (X360, 2006) (3)"
date: 2012-04-02 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Blue Dragon"
- "X360"
- "2006"
---

I played tonight a lot and got to the second disc.

Today there were a couple dumb mini-games: the wagon escort
mission and the MechaCat shooting segment. They weren't miserable,
but they weren't fun.

In Mural Town, I learned more about the world, which was kind of
interesting. It used to have magic, then it had robots, then
everything was destroyed. Still no real explanation of what's the
deal with the world though.

In Jibral, there's a really big town but it kind of loses
direction and you wander around aimlessly. I know some people like
stuff like this, because they feel like they can really explore,
etc, but I don't like it. I want focused, tight
experiences. Especially when exploration isn't necessarily fun
(e.g., in Castlevania it is fun to traverse and you fight things
on the way.)

I agree with Maru that Zola is pretty cool.

The final area of the disc was pretty epic. I like it when disc
changes are accompanied by awesomeness and not just running out of
space. There was a good boss rush and I actually died for the
first time against the knife throwing one. (My magic users were
Silenced and two attackers were Paralyzed and she spammed the
"Knife Rain" attack.) The fights were pretty tense tonight, which
was fun.

By today, they've firmly established that the plot is to take out
Nene, but I realized why I think it is weak. It's because the
characters themselves are so empty. They have no personal desires
or hurdles they need to overcome. They are more than totally blank
though: each has an archetype based on their relationship with
their parents. Whatev, I think that's why I'm not as crazy about
the motivation.

My class ranks are about 26 now. I looked in the instruction book
and it says that most classes top out at level 36 in terms of what
skills they get. I wonder what I'll choose for my number twos?

I wonder if my 14-hour through disc 1 should just be multiplied by
3 to get the today time? That would be about 40
hours. HowLongToBeat.com lists as having about 37 hours average
for normal playthroughs. I can't imagine doing a lot of bonus
content, so I expect I'm on track.

013:34:49 --- Disc 2: Jibral Castle - Throne Room --- 22/21/21/21
