---
layout: post
title: "Movie: Resident Evil: Afterlife, starring Milla Jovovich (2010)"
date: 2012-03-20 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Movies"
- "2010"
---

This movie is on par with the last one and perhaps a slight step
down. It is much less globe-trotting, with essentially four
sets---the Tokyo office (small), Alaska (small), the LA Prison
(large), and the Arcadia (small).

The opening fight is caraaaazy and has a lot of the elements of the
third movie where you think you're watching *the Alice* but
aren't. I was disappointed that Alice lost her powers almost
instantly, but I think it is probably good for the movie that she
lost them, because they make her too unstoppable... but it still
fun to have her as a super hero. They don't explain at all how she
recovers from the crash, separates from Wesker, doesn't reconnect
to her supplies / more clones in Nevada, etc. But whatever :)

The Claire pick-up is kind of strange at the time, but the
resolution of what she was doing is pretty awesome by the end of
the movie. It was a genuine surprise and I liked it a lot. By the
way, Ali Larter. Wow.

One of the worst things about this movie is how horrible the actor
who plays Wesker is. He's way to stiff and "too cool for school". I
can see what he was going for... by not moving very much he's
trying to act above the situation, but it comes across as really
stupid.

The ultimate action of the movie is strange because it is
practically a meaningless excursion---only Chris and Luther survive
and Luther barely does. It doesn't really do anything to advance
the mythos, just that Wesker is a tough guy and Umbrella continues
to experiment on people. I'd like them pursue that fact that really
only Umbrella has a chance of saving the world and if they weren't
such punks, Alice should be helping them. What does she expect to
do? She really has no motivation besides revenge and helping out
survivors (but mostly they just die because she's around.) I found
it interesting in the beginning that she clearly blames herself for
the outbreak. Is she referring to planning a robbery? Or being
involved in the first movie? It's unclear what she is talking
about.

The new kinds of zombies in this movie are interesting and appear
with almost no notice by the characters. The "Majini" zombies are
super creepy. The big "butcher" guy was weird; I expected him to be
like a rogue Nemesis, but they don't really go into at all.

The ending is pretty insane. First, Wikipedia says that a figure
parachutes away from the explosion of Wesker's plane, but I didn't
see that. (Just watched a video of that and it's pretty clear. When
I first saw the ending, I didn't realize what the smudge in the
background was, but now it is clear.) Weird. Second, every movie
ends with an opening for the next movie, but 2 and 3 end of very
happy resolutions. 1 is less happy, but still Alice is in a
position of control and power. This ending is a pretty bad
cliff-hanger because they are literally about to be blown
away. Where are all these Umbrella goons hiding? It was not at all
clear to me that the woman in command of the attack was Jill
Valentine, because she had different hair color. Weird. (I watched
the ending again and it still doesn't look like her, but the voice
sounds just like her.)

As I was watching, my PS3 detected a Cinavia watermark. What cool
technology! I had to switch to watching on the PC.

It is interesting that this movie made significantly more money
than the others. Good for them. The production value is definitely
up from the others. (Although I'd say that only the second was
"bad" on that front. The first wasn't good, but I think it was good
for its time.)

Regarding the Wikipedia summary of the reception: I agree that
there is a large amount of slow motion which seems incredibly
tedious---especially in Claire's fight in the shower. The action is
slower paced in general, but I think that is good, because you can
appreciate it more.
