---
layout: post
title: "Movie: In Time, starring Justin Timberlake (2011)"
date: 2012-05-03 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Movies"
- "2011"
---

This was a really fascinating movie. It's a totally unique dystopia
for me (maybe Wikipedia will tell me about things that are like
it?) and that is always fascinating. The plot is basically Bonnie &
Clyde after an initial glance at the prejudice and hardship in the
system.

The imagery is really cool and there are lots of interesting and
bizarre situations, like the way Wies introduces his female
relatives.

I think the movie lost some good opportunities for character
development. For example, Will gets 30 minutes for lunch at the
beginning but she dies by seconds when she can't take the bus, and
was just 20 minutes short of being able to pay for the bus
ride. Yet, he doesn't acknowledge this for the sake of the audience
or to show his great remorse, etc.

Overall, I found the movie to be very intriguing. This, however, is
also its biggest problem because it begs you to think about it
deeply and the world isn't explained well enough.

For example, there's a strong suggestion that the mantra "For few to
be immortal, many must die" has some sort of quasi-mystical and
dreadful significance. Like there is some sort of Big Brother type
that is keeping people down. However, this isn't followed through.

The purpose of the Time Keepers is not explained adequately. On one
level, they are simply cops and since money is time, they are
connected to time. However, in the end, when they're talking about
how "that much money can't leave that zone" and many other
situations, you get the impression that there is some deeper
purpose to their actions.

Similarly, the movie has poor economics. For example, what effect
does birth have, given that it introduces a year of time? If the
time is a real commodity---i.e. an abstraction of some sort of
energy their bodies need, rather than a fiat system (i.e. they are
like nanomachines that keep track of the time and just kill you
when it is zero.)---then where does the new year come from? How
could there be such price controls?

I think the movie could have resolved this better by coming up with
some sort of origin story and pseudo-science to explain why people
would choose to live like this (and everyone!) at some point
voluntarily and how it works. I think the fiat system would have
been interesting, because it makes it so there's actually a
solution that they could possibly reach. But, as it is, we can't
imagine that Will and Sylvia will ever actually fix
anything... other than what communists and Robin Hoods try to do
and fail to do in the real world.

The movie is very confused, therefore, with what its message (and
the message of its heroes) really is. Philippe spouts
pseudo-Capitalism, so perhaps the movie is anti-Capitalism? Yet,
the corruption of the Time Keepers vis a vis Fortis is reminiscent
of the relationship between the US and e.g. African dictators. So,
is it an anti "Globalization" or "Imperialist" politic?

I think because they don't foreshadow a solution or great evil
through technology or metaphysics, the world must be a "natural"
world and so the villain must be natural, and they rhetoric of the
movie leaves nothing left but a political agenda. Yet, it doesn't
articulate what the agenda is.

The movie is good for making it possible to think of it like this,
but it is bad because by not answering these questions, it is
incoherent and vapid.
