---
layout: post
title: "Game: Dark Souls (PS3, 2011) (19)"
date: 2012-06-28 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Dark Souls"
- "PS3"
- "2011"
---

Tonight I played for a little less than three hours and finished
the game. I went through the Catacombs and then to the final
boss. I beat the Pinwheel boss and Nito on my first try. After I
got back to the Firelink Shrine, it took me a long time to figure
out that I just needed to jump down the pit to get back to the
Lordvessel. I did it the first time very nervously. I fought the
boss once and got creamed, then did a few of the upgrades I could
on my gear and then went back and beat him on my second try. After
I watched the ending, I had a big... that was it? Just explode
into the flame?

-- Final Stats --

SL:  89

Vit: 40!
Att:  8!
End: 46!
Str: 28!
Dex: 20!
Res: 11!
Int:  9!
Fai:  9!

Fire Murakumo +7 
Giant Armor +5
Eagle Shield +13

Total Time: 48:02

-- Review --

This is a great game. The combat is fun and challenging. The world
is interesting and detailed. It's exactly like Demon's Souls, but
better. Read my review about that game for more gushing. At this
point, I think I can only really think about what sets it apart
from Demon's Souls.

I think the graphics were improved in that invisible technical
way. The environments feel like they could've been in the last
game and some of them seem incredibly close. Whatever graphical
upgrades they made aren't a significant reasons to play this
versus the older one.

The story of the game is worse, in a sense. I honestly had no clue
what the point of the adventure was. I'm undead, there's a king, I
need to get as strong as him, to beat him, and do what? After
reading the wiki Lore page, I still don't really understand what I
did in the game. In contrast, I think Demon's Souls story was very
coherent.

The world of the game is better though. The world seems much more
real because it's all interconnected. It's very exhilarating to
see a place from many different angles and get there. In contrast,
in the previous game, it felt incredibly "level"-y.

I think the difficulty of the game is pretty much identical to its
predecessor, in a sense. I felt like I never really had to learn
new strategies against what I already knew from Demon's. There
were a few tough bosses, but only one that was really a wall: the
dual bosses in Anor Londo. I enjoyed the combat a lot, but I don't
think it really evolved that much.

The way that the game is more difficult, however, is in the
numbers game. In the last game I never upgraded my weapons at all
and didn't even really go out of my way to get particular
stuff. In this game, I got the strongest armor in the game and got
incredibly powerful weapons. Until then, I got reasonable stuff
and the game was a challenge, but not impossible. Afterward, it
felt almost the same actually, although I started getting through
the bosses in one or two tries versus four or five. But, I felt
like I did less grinding in this game than the last... maybe I
just found a better farming spot.

The other more difficult thing in this game were the precarious
environments that I fell off a lot. There was really only one
place like that in Demon's, but I felt like Dark has a ton. Other
than these, I felt like the game had much fewer frustrating
moments and really not that many at all. I don't really find the
game that difficult... just a good challenge... like Mega Man.

I'm a bit surprised about my statistics on the game. I ended up
two levels LOWER than Demon's. I spent about twenty MORE hours. I
spent 19 days over the course of about six weeks---about the same
amount of total days, I think.

Overall, I loved the game. But, I won't be doing New Game+. I
played the last game about a year ago and I could imagine playing
a game like this in another year. I'd really like to figure out
how to make a game like this in 2D.
