---
layout: post
title: "Movie: The Hunger Games, starring Jennifer Lawrence (2012)"
date: 2012-03-23 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Movies"
- "2012"
---

I saw this on opening day, because my wife was going with some
friends and someone fell through, so I took the last ticket. I have
never read the books, so I don't really have opinions or
predilections about it. I thought the world was neat. They did a
good job showing the opulence of the people in the capitol, but I
don't think they really made the oppression disgusting enough. The
action was fun and she was pretty heroic---I found myself tearing
up a few times. I find the world to be pretty unbelievable
though. I don't understand how the people in the capitol could be
supportive of the oppression, when they don't seem to be kept in
the dark or otherwise "brainwashed" into thinking that they are
doing great things for the districts. Similarly, I don't understand
why they would not take better care of the districts or why the
districts would not have already gone on strike. The idea that this
could go on for 74 years strains credulity. I don't think Katniss
is a very consistent character. The movie communicated to me that
she was all about doing the right thing and would rather die than
not do that; yet, she doesn't do a whole lot against "the man". For
example, when she talks to Peter at night before the games start,
he says he wants to show that he is not "owned" and she agrees, but
says she'd like to go home. The way this scene plays out and how
she is so non-aggressive during the games said to me that she
really agreed with him. Yet, she never actually does anything to go
against them. Dying together at the end is a little bit like that,
but you get the impression that she knew they wouldn't let her do
it, and therefore it was an empty calculation rather than a
confident objection. Overall, I really enjoyed the movie, but I
felt like it could be more. My wife says that it is part one of a
trilogy and my wishes will come true in some way in the
future. That's fine... but... it's annoying when you need to know
something about the real world to appreciate a movie... when it
can't satisfy you on its own.
