---
layout: post
title: "Game: Dark Souls (PS3, 2011) (15)"
date: 2012-06-23 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Dark Souls"
- "PS3"
- "2011"
---

I played for about three and a half hours today. I started by
getting enough money to buy the Giant Armor and Havel's Ring. Then
I realized that if I wanted to upgrade the armor all the way, I'd
need a lot of Twinkling shards, that were only sold by the guy I
was planning on killing. After a little while grinding souls to
buy the shards, I decided to check out Ash Lake where I could find
an enemy that dropped them. Unfortunately, it was a major pain to
get down the Great Hollow, plus the Black Hydra was really tough
(and I couldn't kill him...). When I finally go there, I only
managed to get 2 drops in an amount of time I probably could have
got enough souls to buy four or five. So I decided to
leave... which took a lot of time to exit the Great Hollow. It was
a major pain... and a major mistake to go down there. I think I'll
grind for souls and just buy them.

TODO list:
- Get 10 + X? twinkling (10 total --- 4 3 2 1 --- per item, I have
4 armor pieces)
- Trade each of the three clumps to snuggly for shards (x4)
- Upgrade Giant Armor to +5
- Kill Giant Blacksmith to get Hammer
- Upgrade Hammer to +5 (need 10 Twinkling)
- Upgrade Black Bow to +5
- Go to Demon Ruins to get Fire Ember
- Upgrade Black Bow to +10 fire
- Upgrade Shield to +15
- Upgrade Murakumo to +10 fire and get the strength (28) to use it
- Fight the Black Hydra in Ash Lake
- Kill Stray Demon (in Aslyum)
- Explore the rest of Sen's Fortress (Pit)
- Kill Poison Dragon and final girl in Painted World
- Go to Abyss
- Go to New Londo Ruins
- Go to Dragon Valley

SL:  71

Vit: 40!
Att:  8!
End: 40!
Str: 16!
Dex: 20!
Res: 11!
Int:  9!
Fai:  9!

Total Time: 37:02
