---
layout: post
title: "Battlestar Galactica - Season 4 - Episode 19 & 20 - Daybreak"
date: 2012-03-03 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "TV Shows"
- "Battlestar Galactica"
---

The flashbacks are interesting, but I wonder how they can
relevant. I don't feel like they answer big questions about the
characters, they just seem to be elaborating some of the
characters we already know about them. Even Gaius/Caprica and
Laura's things tell us new things about them, but we already
believed those characters traits. I'm kind of surprised that
Gaius would really go with Galactica and I still wonder what he
could do there. How will the story resolve what the deal is with
his "destiny" and his "angel"? I'm glad that Boomer is trying to
help Hera (even though she got her into the mess in the first
place.)  It was funny how the black guy said, "It looks like it
was wrong to trust her" and Cavil, ever the machine, says "No, it
was just a miscalculation." It was really cool to see the humans
fighting alongside Centurions (you wonder how they explained the
problem to them); and it was also neat to see the old Centurions
on the colony. I'm still not sure how they'll be able to fully
resolve the story. In my mind, they need (a) rescue Hera, (b)
destroy the Cylon threat, (c) find a place to live, and (d)
briefly explain how future integration will occur. Right now,
they are on track to (a) and I can imagine they'll be able to (b)
by destroying the colony, or something. But what'll happen with
(c) and (d)... or the other un-answered questions?

Well, the solution they came up with was pretty awesome. I find a
little hard to believe that they could convince everyone to put
down their technology, but it is a good solution. The connection
to real history is really cool too. It was super epic how Kara
came up with the jump coordinates and how she was really an angel
or something. Part of me wishes that they would go into more
detail with Gaius' cult, God, how the 13th (Cylon) colony was
attacked, etc, but another part of me thinks that they couldn't
do it in a non-absurd way. By the way, I found the truce from
Cavil to be very believable and I think he would have been
trustworthy. I didn't expect Tyril to be such a punk. What an
awesome show.

[Bryan Caplan](http://econlog.econlib.org/archives/2009/03/you_will_know_t.html) was very upset with the finale. He finds it really
unbelievable. I agree. But I think that the conclusion was safe,
in the sense that it resolved the core conflict in a meaningful
way. A few commentators make the point that it is the only way to
connect the Colonists with our past. One person on his site says
that the whole story is like a re-telling of the Flood: God is
sick of the wickness, so He destroys almost everyone and starts
over with a group of flawed people (Adama = Noah = weak to
drink). Another comment talks about how cool it would be if the
arrived in modern times and it dealt with how crazy we would feel
about them. The same guy says that they could have crash landed
to remove their equipment, rather than voluntary losing it. Re:
Kara leads people to their doom, might mean the destruction of
technology.

[*REDACTED* Matters](http://mormonmatters.org/2009/03/21/battlestar-galactica-series-finale-critique-spoiler-alert/) has an interesting review.
