---
layout: post
title: "Game: Blue Dragon (X360, 2006) (4)"
date: 2012-04-03 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Blue Dragon"
- "X360"
- "2006"
---

Today I started from the beginning of Disc 2 and went to the
Ancient Prison. There weren't a lot of boss battles today, but
they were a few and a few more mini-bosses (seemingly unique
enemies, but without the boss battle music.) I got a lot of
equipment upgrades, but didn't gain many levels, either overall or
ranks in my classes. I wouldn't say there was anything hard today
either.

The story had a few revelations today. Most interesting was the
idea that the Ancients have not been seen in 10,000 years and that
Nene is one of these ancients... presumably the last one who "won"
the war and therefore is the "king" of the world, but lives so
secretively and without the need to interact with people, he's
effectively a force of nature from their perspective, and only
chooses to interact in so much as to bug them. Yet, he has
recently had some problems with his age, so he needs to use
Ancient technology again, but can't find it. (That's what you get
for killing everyone, I guess.) Although, the above summary is
definitely my surmise and not something the game explains.

This is an interesting concept, but the game doesn't uses its
curiosity as much as I am expanding on it in my head.

There were a few cute more things. I think my favourite was the
Pyre-Rat. The emotion of the machines sacrificing themselves was
very real.

I took a glance at a FAQ's TOC to see how far I was in the game
and it appears that I am near the end of this Disc, which is
strange to me, but maybe one of the final areas takes a long time?

I'm glad I have not needed to grind, because I would probably
quit.

016:28:14 --- Disc 2: Ancient Prison - Moat --- 25
