---
layout: post
title: "Game: Final Fantasy 13 2 (PS3, 2012) (20)"
date: 2012-02-24 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Final Fantasy 13 2"
- "PS3"
- "2012"
---

Collecting Fragments and Paradox endings. There's a lot of small
comments that make me suspect Alyssa of something bad. The
missions in this game are very fetch questy, whereas in normal 13,
they are generally really tough battles. The Paradox Endings are
really cool---especially when Noel becomes a Guardian. So far
though, none of them can be the "real/good" ending. I beat Atlas
without the device! Awesome! Caius is really hard with the Paradox
Scope on. And now just got the Royal Ripeness. The Flan ending is
ridiculous! The Proto Adam ending was trivial to get. "The Future
is Hope" ending is strange because it seems like the "true"
ending, because of all the allusions to Alyssa being up to no
good---but it's very anti-climatic... although I guess it could
setup a sequel where Serah and Snow are the heroes? It really
feels like the setup for a sequel, especially if you look at the
transcript: "A new adventure was just beginning---the hunt for the
thirteen crystals!" Fighting Caius with just Serah was really
really tough... it took about 4 times and I spent a TON of gil on
improving my Sentinel monster. Maybe it is just because of where I
am in the game, but it doesn't feel like it has been as hard as
FF13 was throughout the whole thing. A little sad. There still
hasn't been any explanation given of why Snow is a l'Cie. The
fragments from the Augusta Tower--The A.Z Files---reveal that
Alyssa sees Caius in her dreams and maybe is really dead? I just
read a little bit of a guide to let me know some of the things
that can be done in the game still. [050:43:10 Frags 157/160 Lvl
541]
