---
layout: post
title: "Game: Star Ocean: The Last Hope International (PS3, 2010) (4)"
date: 2012-05-13 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Star Ocean: The Last Hope International"
- "PS3"
- "2010"
---

I played another 30-ish minutes of the game. I decided that I'm
not interested enough in this game to play it. The story seems
fine, maybe a bit cliche. The interesting thing to me was the
setting of the intro movie, which was abandoned pretty instantly
and now I'm on random medieval planet (like the first three
games.) I'll ignore a boring story if the gameplay is awesome,
but...

I can't remember what the combat system was like for the third
game (I remember liking it, but I feel like it was similar to
this) but I'm not compelled by this one at all. It's a cross
between way too easy and way too frustrating. For example, most
battles can be won by simply pressing X over and over. There's a
"blindside" system, but it's basically impossible to use when you
are ganged up on, and when you aren't ganged up on, you can just
time your attacks to never need to dodge. It's frustrating that
you can't really use it well. The targeting system is really
frustrating because it never seems to go where you want and
there's no way to lock on to a target. The field is really bad,
because sometimes you'll run at an enemy from behind, but the hit
detection is off, so you end up getting them from the side and you
get a Surprise attack, even though you clearly snuck up on them
from behind. Argh! The controls in combat are really laggy with
hidden timers or something. This is the worst when it comes to
jumping. You'll hit the button and then have a noticeable delay
before the jump happens. 

The game aspires to feel like a third-person action game, but it's
not good enough at it to make the comparison a good thing. It
pales in comparison to Bayonetta. I don't think I have the time
and interest to play 50 hours (the median time on
HowLongToBeat.com) of something that is not totally amazing.

I'm glad I've played tri-Ace games released after this, because I
can imagine that if I played this on release, I would be skeptical
of their ability to continue to deliver hits. But, Resonance of
Fate was amaaaazing, so tri-Ace still has it.

So long, Star Ocean.

Total: 4:14
