---
layout: post
title: "Game: Ikaruga (X360, 2008) (5)"
date: 2010-06-27 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Ikaruga"
- "X360"
- "2008"
---

Since my last post about Ikaruga, I've continued my daily
training. I've made a few new accomplishments:
- *Grade of A on Easy - Chapter 2.* I've been working on this
since November 2009 and I finally did it this morning.

Here's (roughly) my technique ([[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6sow_bw4iq4][here's a video of someone doing
it much better than me]] to following along): chain the first few
popcorn strands and then dodge the kamikaze planes while getting
two to three more chains in the process, if I get hit then just
shot everything but try to end in a white enemy, then get the
six black enemies on the left, then get three white (not four!)
in the middle, then get the six white on the right, then go back
to the middle and get the black as they fly by, ending by
switching to black and firing lasers to destroy everything
remaining. By the end of the prologue, I've had a 12 chain
stretch and I'm on a 14 chain stretch. If I'm imbalanced because
I didn't have enough laser energy for the whites, an immediate
bullet will kill a white and a quick second shot after moving to
the right a little will get another white. Now I kill the blacks
two at a time as they rotate around, then kill all the white. If
I've been fast enough, the ring of white will appear and I'll
get them, then get all the floating white blocks. Now I destroy
the left black block on top, then the right, then I get the two
popcorn that come on the left, then go back and get the
right. By this time I should have a little more than 30
chains. Now I destroy the white blocks by firing then move
forward and blow black lasers to get the incoming whites. Now I
go back and forth chaining every single enemy, then I blast the
white stream of popcorn until I have to get out. I tap to the
left and switch black then kill the 3 black on the left, then
the 3 white on the right, then I get the rotating popcorn. I
ignore the laser shooting enemies and kill the six white popcorn
on the left, then three on right (I often die if I go for all
six so I play it safe.) Then I destroy the left 6 black and use
lasers to destroy the central blocks, now I chain everything
that comes through until I get to the popcorn emitters. I
destroy the black generators then start taking out white streams
until the bottom one is off-screen. Then I destroy the black
popcorn in the circle as the come past the bottom, then I blast
all the white and chain the laser-shooters and their
options. Now it's time for the boss and I've got almost 90
chains. I take down the boss by shooting black lasers
immediately, opening the white hatch, destroying it, opening the
black hatch, then sitting right next to it dodging. I can take
down the boss in about 15 seconds and only opening the hatches
once each.

I'm not writing down my strategy so that you can learn or
because it's that important, but I'd like you to understand that
I have the entire level in my brain and I have planned out my
attack to the letter.

- *Easy - Chapter 4 - Dot Eater.* This took about five weeks of
playing (but, of course, for two I was on a trip so I caught up
on a single night last week.) I wouldn't say it was much easier
than Chapter 3, but rather doing Chapter 3 taught me so much
about Ikaruga that I was able to do it easier. Chapter 4 is
probably a little bit easier though because it has such a strong
theme: oppositely spinning beams of black and white so you must
be one color to go one direction and the other to go the
opposite. One thing I'm a bit proud of is that I got through the
boss on my first try ever and didn't get hit once (which is good
because I didn't have any extra lives by the time I go to the
boss.) [Here's a video of someone else.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D0PlVm5n0zk)

I still love this game.
