---
layout: post
title: "Game: Darksiders (X360, 2010)"
date: 2011-02-14 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Darksiders"
- "X360"
- "2010"
---

A few days ago I started playing Darksiders.

I was interested in the game because Vinny on the Giantbomb
cast was really into it and it sounded neat. I liked the idea of a
non-Nintendo Zelda game that focused a bit more on combat.

However, I didn't finish the game and I'm selling it because it
really didn't take me and I disliked it quite a bit.

On the first day, I was really struck by how bad the voice
acting was and how lame the story is. I think the core problem is
that it takes itself so incredibly seriously that it is so
laughable to hear gravely voices and faux "darkness". Another
thing I noticed was that, unlike Zelda, it does a poor job at
hiding its linearity. This was a little bit aggravating and made
the world feel a lot smaller than Hyrule. The biggest problem that
I noticed the first day, though, was how weak the brawler combat
was. It was a strange mixture between to easy (X X X X X B X X X Y
Y Y repeat) and to hard (the defense capabilities are almost
totally inadequate because of the input lag and weird hitboxes.)
Now, Zelda doesn't have very good combat either, but at least it
is a small part of the game. In contrast, Darksiders puts a lot of
emphasis on combat but doesn't have an adequate system. I think I
have been forever spoiled by Bayonetta.

On the second day, I continued to notice the combat and
actually began to think it was properly boring. The enemies take
way too long to kill and becomes pure tedium. I did one of the
first proper dungeons and was impressed with how big it was. But
when it wasn't clear that I hadn't finished and area and had to
backtrack A LOT, it was annoying. I ended that day at the first
big boss battle.

On the third day, I finished that boss battle. Man, that was
bad. The wild camera and huge hitboxes were maximally frustrating
and I almost considered stopping then, but I wanted to get through
the boss to ensure that I was uninterested in the game and not
just frustrated by a boss.  Well, I beat it and continued with the
quest. Here's a note I wrote: "This game is soooo tedious." There
is this weird genre-mixing segment shortly after that boss battle
that really didn't work.

I decided to sell the game after stopping for the night. I was
originally going to just use Amazon sales, but then I noticed I
could trade it in. Wow! Amazon Trade-In is cool!

Total Time: 4:31:42
Combat Time: 1:13:38
Kills: 815
Deaths: 6
Distance: 51.8 miles
Souls: 14395
Combo: 30
Demon Blood: 1542.99 gallons    
