---
layout: post
title: "Game: Final Fantasy 13 2 (PS3, 2012) (22)"
date: 2012-02-26 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Final Fantasy 13 2"
- "PS3"
- "2012"
---

Today I am looking for more monsters... on the Steppe. And I
finished, got all the fragments! Clock Master is hilarious with
the sound effects, etc. Running around in circles to get the
Saddle Sore achievement is funny. Fighting with Clock Master on is
ridiculous. I did like 8 fights with Don Tonberry in what seemed
like 3 minutes. I had what seemed like an incredibly long string
of Preemptive strikes for the Clock Stopper trophy, but I
failed :( Well, I'll do something else. I am going to make my
attempt at the ending again with 5 stars. Wow. It was REALLY
easy---I think it took 6 rounds, maybe 7. I did it one stagger! I
tried to kill Caius in the final Cinematic Action, but it was the
same animation. Weird. I'm kind of annoyed that I did it with
Clock Master on, because I don't want to see the secret ending
with the sound sped up. Maybe I'll watch it on YouTube after if it
is fast. It's weird, some parts of the cutscenes are fast and some
are normal speed. I like the song at the end. Serah is really
pretty in the pre-rendered cinematics and she really does look
like she could be related to Lightning. She has cat earrings. What
a depressing ending. I didn't see any extra scene... will it
happen after the credits? Did I forget to have the Paradox Scope
on? At least the credits scroll faster. Okay it did show up after
the credits... that's it... so lame. I tried to do Clock Stopper
in New Bodhum with the Clockwork Soldier but made a mistake. Argh!
Maybe it was a mistake to have the super speed on. I thought about
maxing out ChiChu or getting all the weapons or something, but
there's no harder monsters to challenge, so it's like it isn't
even worth it. I guess I still need to beat Lightning in the
Colliseum. It is interesting that the game doesn't acknowledge
that you did stuff like that or have other things it does
acknowledge that require stuff like that; especially given what
FF13 was like. [059:25:54 Frags 160/160 Lvl 594]
