---
layout: post
title: "Movie: Resident Evil: Extinction, starring Milla Jovovich (2007)"
date: 2012-03-19 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Movies"
- "2007"
---

This movie is SIGNIFICANTLY better than the last one and really
quite good overall. The plot really goes totally off the game
plots, but in a neat way. It's basically a post-apocalyptic zombie
story, with a convoy of survivors doing what they can. A character
is named Claire Redfield, but doesn't really have anything to do
(except for her outfit) with Claire from the games. It takes the
sci-fi aspects of the last movie and ups the ante a lot, giving
Alice more powerful psychic powers (like we shown at the very end
of 2); in addition to going bigger and bigger. We've gone from
mansion to city and now to world. The acting is fine---again
there's basically no character development for anyone but the bad
guy and Alice, but the one-dimensional characters are playing
stronger and more interesting archetypes, so it's fine. The ending
is totally absurd, as usual and guarantees the next movie will be
insane. The most clever part is the way the Alice clones act (and
are treated) and how the "domesticated" zombie acts. It's really
interesting movie, actually. The deserted Vegas Strip is kind of
neat, but underused.

On Wikipedia, I was surprised to find that it got worse ratings
than the last one, but it sold more (maybe... inflation?) so that
suggested it was better received. Wikipedia mentioned digital
airbrushing, which I noticed too. Very weird.
