---
layout: post
title: "Game: Blue Dragon (X360, 2007) (2)"
date: 2012-04-01 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Blue Dragon"
- "X360"
- "2007"
---

I played this game a lot today in a bunch of different
chunks... about 2 hours in the morning, 2 hours in the middle of
the day, and then 2, 2 hour chunks at night. I'm not totally
positive that the game didn't keep track of time when I had it
paused, but I'm pretty sure that accounting is accurate.

I've begun to understand the game a lot more mechanically.

For example, the key strategy in the battle system is to take out
enemies before they can get in attacks, so you have to sometimes
attack the ones early in the battle order and sometimes late,
essentially wagering that you'll be able to kill that one, but not
that one, etc. An interesting side effect of this is the charging
system. Sometimes you want to "over charge" an attack so that you
go past some other character's turn, so they will kill the target
and your attack will be inherited on the next. So suppose that
Monster A is in the front row with low HP and you have a bigger
hitter followed by a weak hitter, you could charge a big attack
past the weak person's turn, then kill Monster A with the weak
guy, so the big attack will hit something in the Back Row (now the
Front Row because the Front has been cleared.) This is not as
strategic as an actual TRPG or FF13, etc, but it is pretty
neat. Also, there's a very fleshed out elemental weakness system
that you have to pay attention to.

I discovered that the skills from classes can be
mixed-and-matched, although I have not yet got a single rank in
any other class. I feel like I need to totally know what is
available before investing in creating a build.

The exploration structure is very Final Fantasy. You never really
need to find a "base" to grind from. I have not grinded at all. I
have barely used any items either. I just take my time and explore
areas so I can get all the chests.

Overall, the mechanics are interesting enough. The battle system
is simple and turn-based, but the entering/exiting of it is fast
enough to not be a pain. It's not totally mindless. But I wouldn't
say I love it.

The story is pretty meh. I've been playing for 10 hours and I
don't really know a lot about the world or anything. Just that
Nene is a jerk, for apparently no reason, and he seems to have
some ominous purpose with us. Nothing special.

The game really shines in its Dragon-Quest-like cleverness:
- Monsters named "Acornivores"
- The Devee dance party
- Maru's dad saying he has enough energy to have at least one or
two more kids, when there are hordes of them running around.
- Monsters that smack their hands on their bums before entering
battle.

009:35:04 --- Disc 1: Talta Village --- 17/17/17/17
