---
layout: post
title: "Battlestar Galactica - Season 2 - Episode 19 & 20 - Lay Down Your Burdens"
date: 2012-01-13 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "TV Shows"
- "Battlestar Galactica"
---

This was an insane episode. They very quickly changed so many
fundamental things about the show.

The return of the survivors from Caprica was so quick, it seemed
far too easy and they didn't even dwell on how many people made
it, etc.

The draw down of the Cylons was amazing, but they didn't even
dwell on it and get the opinion of some of the people in the show
who would say something interesting---like Gaius or Figment
Number Six.

I was very proud of Lt. Gaida for turning in the XO and the
President and also proud of Adama for convincing her to step
down.

It was very powerful to see his reaction to the death of Pegasus
Number Six, as well as think about her feelings. Was she just
suicidal? Was it part of a plan?

The time leap to New Caprica City was also fascinating. I love
the idea of the military going back to the same waiting
anticipation that they were in so many years before, with
skeletal crews, etc. They do a good job showing how each person
had gotten sloppy in various ways or just otherwise changed their
lives.

Gaius becoming totally decadent seems perfectly in character. I
get the impression that he never saw Figment Six anymore.

Now, the bombshell at the end of the episode with the Cylons
coming back. That tops the cake of insanity.

It makes me wonder what the show could possibly become, because
it will be so different. Although I'll probably be wrong, I'll
give a prediction:

The Cylons came back because Caprica Six and Galactica Sharon
love their human partners and genuinely want to help repair the
damage they did to the humans by helping the relocate back to the
colonies and/or build up New Caprica. They know that they won't
be trusted, so they'll have to use the threat of force to get
them to help. Gaius will believe in this and fully cooperate, but
will be hated by the humans for this, despite greatly improving
their lives with Cylon workers. He'll be seen as even more in
their pocket by having bodyguards, etc.

At the same time, Starbuck will lead a resistance either in the
city or in the wilderness, while the fleet attacks from the
air. The former President will create a shadow government that
coordinates these activities and does ultimately self-destructive
actions.

Eventually word of the Cylon baby will escape, or Gaius will lead
some sort of large scale survey to track it down, if the Cylons
don't already have that plan. The baby will represent the further
dream of combining the two cultures peacefully.

This will go on for some time and then maybe some people will
leave for Earth again.

I'm excited.
