---
layout: post
title: "Game: Blue Dragon (X360, 2007) (6)"
date: 2012-04-05 00:00
comments: true
categories:
- "Video Games"
- "Blue Dragon"
- "X360"
- "2007"
---

I played for about three hours tonight, although on the clock it
was only three. Since I was in Nene's fortress, I had a time limit
on myself and I pushed myself forward pretty fast. When I got to
the four robot boss fight... wow it was really hard. I probably
died 4 times. I was worried that I would have to quit the game
because when I fought around the area I was in, there were only a
few enemies and then there was no more AND I had a time limit. I
gave one more try and beat them just before I planned on giving
up. It was a frightening and annoying thought to have to quit,
although I don't think I would have really minded too
much... unfortunately. I looked at a FAQ for fight advice and it
suggested that I be at level 42... which I definitely am not.

As I play this game more, I'm liking Maru more and more. He's so
wacky and funny. Zola looks more and more like a tramp with every
day and her ridiculous headband is soooo *Snow*. Ugh.

In the final cut-scenes of the disc, Nene's mouth animations look
really weird and Nene is more and more of a jerk. Wow. What a
punk. He's not as pure evil on screen as Kefka was in FF6, but he
has the same quality where you just hate him. Shu is, of course,
super tough. I wonder where the game will go now the characters
have lost their magic (except for Shu)? Obviously they'll get them
back and save the day... but how?

Disc 2 was significantly short than Disc 1. 13.5 vs
about 7. Almost half as short.

020:55:56 --- Disc 3: Old Lady's House - 2F --- 31/31/30/29
